# `create_transfers`

Create one or more [`Transfer`](../transfer.md)s. A successfully created transfer will modify the
amount fields of its [debit](../transfer.md#debit_account_id) and
[credit](../transfer.md#credit_account_id) accounts.

## Event

The transfer to create. See [`Transfer`](../transfer.md) for constraints.

## Result

Results are listed in this section in order of descending precedence — that is, if more than one
error is applicable to the transfer being created, only the result listed first is returned.

### `ok`

The transfer was successfully created; did not previously exist.

Note that `ok` is generated by the client implementation; the network protocol does not include a
result when the transfer was successfully created.

### `linked_event_failed`

The transfer was not created. One or more of the other transfers in the
[linked chain](../transfer.md#flagslinked) is invalid, so the whole chain failed.

### `linked_event_chain_open`

The transfer was not created. The [`Transfer.flags.linked`](../transfer.md#flagslinked) flag was set
on the last event in the batch, which is not legal. (`flags.linked` indicates that the chain
continues to the next operation).

### `timestamp_must_be_zero`

The transfer was not created. The [`Transfer.timestamp`](../account.md#timestamp) is nonzero, but
must be zero. The cluster is responsible for setting this field.

### `reserved_flag`

The transfer was not created. `Transfer.flags.reserved` is nonzero, but must be zero.

### `id_must_not_be_zero`

The transfer was not created. [`Transfer.id`](../transfer.md#id) is zero, which is a reserved value.

### `id_must_not_be_int_max`

The transfer was not created. [`Transfer.id`](../transfer.md#id) is `2^128 - 1`, which is a reserved
value.

### `flags_are_mutually_exclusive`

The transfer was not created. An account cannot be created with the specified combination of
[`Transfer.flags`](../transfer.md#flags).

Flag compatibility (✓ = compatible, ✗ = mutually exclusive):

- [`flags.pending`](../transfer.md#flagspending)
  - ✗ [`flags.post_pending_transfer`](../transfer.md#flagspost_pending_transfer)
  - ✗ [`flags.void_pending_transfer`](../transfer.md#flagsvoid_pending_transfer)
  - ✓ [`flags.balancing_debit`](../transfer.md#flagsbalancing_debit)
  - ✓ [`flags.balancing_credit`](../transfer.md#flagsbalancing_credit)
- [`flags.post_pending_transfer`](../transfer.md#flagspost_pending_transfer)
  - ✗ [`flags.pending`](../transfer.md#flagspending)
  - ✗ [`flags.void_pending_transfer`](../transfer.md#flagsvoid_pending_transfer)
  - ✗ [`flags.balancing_debit`](../transfer.md#flagsbalancing_debit)
  - ✗ [`flags.balancing_credit`](../transfer.md#flagsbalancing_credit)
- [`flags.void_pending_transfer`](../transfer.md#flagsvoid_pending_transfer)
  - ✗ [`flags.pending`](../transfer.md#flagspending)
  - ✗ [`flags.post_pending_transfer`](../transfer.md#flagspost_pending_transfer)
  - ✗ [`flags.balancing_debit`](../transfer.md#flagsbalancing_debit)
  - ✗ [`flags.balancing_credit`](../transfer.md#flagsbalancing_credit)
- [`flags.balancing_debit`](../transfer.md#flagsbalancing_debit)
  - ✓ [`flags.pending`](../transfer.md#flagspending)
  - ✗ [`flags.void_pending_transfer`](../transfer.md#flagsvoid_pending_transfer)
  - ✗ [`flags.post_pending_transfer`](../transfer.md#flagspost_pending_transfer)
  - ✓ [`flags.balancing_credit`](../transfer.md#flagsbalancing_credit)
- [`flags.balancing_credit`](../transfer.md#flagsbalancing_credit)
  - ✓ [`flags.pending`](../transfer.md#flagspending)
  - ✗ [`flags.void_pending_transfer`](../transfer.md#flagsvoid_pending_transfer)
  - ✗ [`flags.post_pending_transfer`](../transfer.md#flagspost_pending_transfer)
  - ✓ [`flags.balancing_debit`](../transfer.md#flagsbalancing_debit)

### `debit_account_id_must_not_be_zero`

The transfer was not created. [`Transfer.debit_account_id`](../transfer.md#debit_account_id) is
zero, but must be a valid account id.

### `debit_account_id_must_not_be_int_max`

The transfer was not created. [`Transfer.debit_account_id`](../transfer.md#debit_account_id) is
`2^128 - 1`, but must be a valid account id.

### `credit_account_id_must_not_be_zero`

The transfer was not created. [`Transfer.credit_account_id`](../transfer.md#credit_account_id) is
zero, but must be a valid account id.

### `credit_account_id_must_not_be_int_max`

The transfer was not created. [`Transfer.credit_account_id`](../transfer.md#credit_account_id) is
`2^128 - 1`, but must be a valid account id.

### `accounts_must_be_different`

The transfer was not created. [`Transfer.debit_account_id`](../transfer.md#debit_account_id) and
[`Transfer.credit_account_id`](../transfer.md#credit_account_id) must not be equal.

That is, an account cannot transfer money to itself.

### `pending_id_must_be_zero`

The transfer was not created. Only post/void transfers can reference a pending transfer.

Either:

- [`Transfer.flags.post_pending_transfer`](../transfer.md#flagspost_pending_transfer) must be set,
  or
- [`Transfer.flags.void_pending_transfer`](../transfer.md#flagsvoid_pending_transfer) must be set,
  or
- [`Transfer.pending_id`](../transfer.md#pending_id) must be zero.

### `pending_id_must_not_be_zero`

The transfer was not created.
[`Transfer.flags.post_pending_transfer`](../transfer.md#flagspost_pending_transfer) or
[`Transfer.flags.void_pending_transfer`](../transfer.md#flagsvoid_pending_transfer) is set, but
[`Transfer.pending_id`](../transfer.md#pending_id) is zero. A posting or voiding transfer must
reference a [`pending`](../transfer.md#flagspending) transfer.

### `pending_id_must_not_be_int_max`

The transfer was not created. [`Transfer.pending_id`](../transfer.md#pending_id) is `2^128 - 1`,
which is a reserved value.

### `pending_id_must_be_different`

The transfer was not created. [`Transfer.pending_id`](../transfer.md#pending_id) is set to the same
id as [`Transfer.id`](../transfer.md#id). Instead it should refer to a different (existing)
transfer.

### `timeout_reserved_for_pending_transfer`

The transfer was not created. [`Transfer.timeout`](../transfer.md#timeout) is nonzero, but only
[pending](../transfer.md#flagspending) transfers have nonzero timeouts.

### `amount_must_not_be_zero`

The transfer was not created. [`Transfer.amount`](../transfer.md#amount) is zero, but must be
nonzero.

Every transfer must move value. Only posting and voiding transfer amounts may be zero — when zero,
they will move the full pending amount.

### `ledger_must_not_be_zero`

The transfer was not created. [`Transfer.ledger`](../transfer.md#ledger) is zero, but must be
nonzero.

### `code_must_not_be_zero`

The transfer was not created. [`Transfer.code`](../transfer.md#code) is zero, but must be nonzero.

### `debit_account_not_found`

The transfer was not created. [`Transfer.debit_account_id`](../transfer.md#debit_account_id) must
refer to an existing `Account`.

### `credit_account_not_found`

The transfer was not created. [`Transfer.credit_account_id`](../transfer.md#credit_account_id) must
refer to an existing `Account`.

### `accounts_must_have_the_same_ledger`

The transfer was not created. The accounts referred to by
[`Transfer.debit_account_id`](../transfer.md#debit_account_id) and
[`Transfer.credit_account_id`](../transfer.md#credit_account_id) must have an identical
[`ledger`](../account.md#ledger).

[Currency exchange](../../coding/recipes/currency-exchange.md) is implemented with multiple
transfers.

### `transfer_must_have_the_same_ledger_as_accounts`

The transfer was not created. The accounts referred to by
[`Transfer.debit_account_id`](../transfer.md#debit_account_id) and
[`Transfer.credit_account_id`](../transfer.md#credit_account_id) are equivalent, but differ from the
[`Transfer.ledger`](../transfer.md#ledger).

### `pending_transfer_not_found`

The transfer was not created. The transfer referenced by
[`Transfer.pending_id`](../transfer.md#pending_id) does not exist.

### `pending_transfer_not_pending`

The transfer was not created. The transfer referenced by
[`Transfer.pending_id`](../transfer.md#pending_id) exists, but does not have
[`flags.pending`](../transfer.md#flagspending) set.

### `pending_transfer_has_different_debit_account_id`

The transfer was not created. The transfer referenced by
[`Transfer.pending_id`](../transfer.md#pending_id) exists, but with a different
[`debit_account_id`](../transfer.md#debit_account_id).

The post/void transfer's `debit_account_id` must either be `0` or identical to the pending
transfer's `debit_account_id`.

### `pending_transfer_has_different_credit_account_id`

The transfer was not created. The transfer referenced by
[`Transfer.pending_id`](../transfer.md#pending_id) exists, but with a different
[`credit_account_id`](../transfer.md#credit_account_id).

The post/void transfer's `credit_account_id` must either be `0` or identical to the pending
transfer's `credit_account_id`.

### `pending_transfer_has_different_ledger`

The transfer was not created. The transfer referenced by
[`Transfer.pending_id`](../transfer.md#pending_id) exists, but with a different
[`ledger`](../transfer.md#ledger).

The post/void transfer's `ledger` must either be `0` or identical to the pending transfer's
`ledger`.

### `pending_transfer_has_different_code`

The transfer was not created. The transfer referenced by
[`Transfer.pending_id`](../transfer.md#pending_id) exists, but with a different
[`code`](../transfer.md#code).

The post/void transfer's `code` must either be `0` or identical to the pending transfer's `code`.

### `exceeds_pending_transfer_amount`

The transfer was not created. The transfer's [`amount`](../transfer.md#amount) exceeds the `amount`
of its [pending](../transfer.md#pending_id) transfer.

### `pending_transfer_has_different_amount`

The transfer was not created. The transfer is attempting to
[void](../transfer.md#flagsvoid_pending_transfer) a pending transfer. The voiding transfer's
[`amount`](../transfer.md#amount) must be either `0` or exactly the `amount` of the pending
transfer.

To partially void a transfer, create a [posting transfer](../transfer.md#flagspost_pending_transfer)
with an amount between `0` and the pending transfer's `amount`.

### `pending_transfer_already_posted`

The transfer was not created. The referenced [pending](../transfer.md#pending_id) transfer was
already posted by a [`post_pending_transfer`](../transfer.md#flagspost_pending_transfer).

### `pending_transfer_already_voided`

The transfer was not created. The referenced [pending](../transfer.md#pending_id) transfer was
already voided by a [`void_pending_transfer`](../transfer.md#flagsvoid_pending_transfer).

### `pending_transfer_expired`

The transfer was not created. The referenced [pending](../transfer.md#pending_id) transfer was
already voided because its [timeout](../transfer.md#timeout) has passed.

### `exists_with_different_flags`

A transfer with the same `id` already exists, but with different [`flags`](../transfer.md#flags).

### `exists_with_different_debit_account_id`

A transfer with the same `id` already exists, but with a different
[`debit_account_id`](../transfer.md#debit_account_id).

### `exists_with_different_credit_account_id`

A transfer with the same `id` already exists, but with a different
[`credit_account_id`](../transfer.md#credit_account_id).

### `exists_with_different_amount`

A transfer with the same `id` already exists, but with a different
[`amount`](../transfer.md#amount).

If the transfer has [`flags.balancing_debit`](../transfer.md#flagsbalancing_debit) or
[`flags.balancing_credit`](../transfer.md#flagsbalancing_credit) set, then the actual amount
transferred exceeds this failed transfer's `amount`.

### `exists_with_different_pending_id`

A transfer with the same `id` already exists, but with a different
[`pending_id`](../transfer.md#pending_id).

### `exists_with_different_user_data_128`

A transfer with the same `id` already exists, but with a different
[`user_data_128`](../transfer.md#user_data_128).

### `exists_with_different_user_data_64`

A transfer with the same `id` already exists, but with a different
[`user_data_64`](../transfer.md#user_data_64).

### `exists_with_different_user_data_32`

A transfer with the same `id` already exists, but with a different
[`user_data_32`](../transfer.md#user_data_32).

### `exists_with_different_timeout`

A transfer with the same `id` already exists, but with a different
[`timeout`](../transfer.md#timeout).

### `exists_with_different_code`

A transfer with the same `id` already exists, but with a different [`code`](../transfer.md#code).

### `exists`

A transfer with the same `id` already exists.

If the transfer has [`flags.balancing_debit`](../transfer.md#flagsbalancing_debit) or
[`flags.balancing_credit`](../transfer.md#flagsbalancing_credit) set, then the existing
transfer may have a different [`amount`](../transfer.md#amount), limited to the maximum
(if non-zero) `amount` of the transfer in the request.

Otherwise, the existing transfer is identical to the transfer in the request.

To correctly [recover from application crashes](../../coding/reliable-transaction-submission.md),
many applications should handle `exists` exactly as [`ok`](#ok).

### `overflows_debits_pending`

The transfer was not created. `debit_account.debits_pending + transfer.amount` would overflow a
128-bit unsigned integer.

### `overflows_credits_pending`

The transfer was not created. `credit_account.credits_pending + transfer.amount` would overflow a
128-bit unsigned integer.

### `overflows_debits_posted`

The transfer was not created. `debit_account.debits_posted + transfer.amount` would overflow a
128-bit unsigned integer.

### `overflows_credits_posted`

The transfer was not created. `debit_account.credits_posted + transfer.amount` would overflow a
128-bit unsigned integer.

### `overflows_debits`

The transfer was not created.
`debit_account.debits_pending + debit_account.debits_posted + transfer.amount` would overflow a
128-bit unsigned integer.

### `overflows_credits`

The transfer was not created.
`credit_account.credits_pending + credit_account.credits_posted + transfer.amount` would overflow a
128-bit unsigned integer.

### `overflows_timeout`

The transfer was not created. `transfer.timestamp + (transfer.timeout * 1_000_000_000)` would
exceed `2^63`.

[`Transfer.timeout`](../transfer.md#timeout) is converted to nanoseconds.

This computation uses the [`Transfer.timestamp`](../transfer.md#timestamp) value assigned by the
replica, not the `0` value sent by the client.

### `exceeds_credits`

The transfer was not created.

If [`flags.balancing_debit`](../transfer.md#flagsbalancing_debit) is set, then
`debit_account.debits_pending + debit_account.debits_posted + 1` would exceed
`debit_account.credits_posted`.

Otherwise, the [debit account](../transfer.md#debit_account_id) has
[`flags.debits_must_not_exceed_credits`](../account.md#flagsdebits_must_not_exceed_credits) set, but
`debit_account.debits_pending + debit_account.debits_posted + transfer.amount` would exceed
`debit_account.credits_posted`.

### `exceeds_debits`

The transfer was not created.

If [`flags.balancing_credit`](../transfer.md#flagsbalancing_credit) is set, then
`credit_account.credits_pending + credit_account.credits_posted + 1` would exceed
`credit_account.debits_posted`.

Otherwise, the [credit account](../transfer.md#credit_account_id) has
[`flags.credits_must_not_exceed_debits`](../account.md#flagscredits_must_not_exceed_debits) set, but
`credit_account.credits_pending + credit_account.credits_posted + transfer.amount` would exceed
`credit_account.debits_posted`.

## Client libraries

For language-specific docs see:

- [.NET library](/src/clients/dotnet/README.md#create-transfers)
- [Java library](/src/clients/java/README.md#create-transfers)
- [Go library](/src/clients/go/README.md#create-transfers)
- [Node.js library](/src/clients/node/README.md#create-transfers)

## Internals

If you're curious and want to learn more, you can find the source code for creating a transfer in
[src/state_machine.zig](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/blob/main/src/state_machine.zig).
Search for `fn create_transfer(` and `fn execute(`.
