# `create_accounts`

Create one or more [`Account`](../accounts.md)s.

## Event

The account to create. See [`Account`](../accounts.md) for constraints.

## Result

Results are listed in this section in order of descending precedence — that is, if more than one
error is applicable to the account being created, only the result listed first is returned.

### `ok`
The account was successfully created; it did not previously exist.

Note that `ok` is generated by the client implementation; the network protocol does not include a
result when the account was successfully created.

### `linked_event_failed`
The account was not created.
One or more of the accounts in the [linked chain](../accounts.md#flagslinked) is invalid, so the
whole chain failed.

### `linked_event_chain_open`
The account was not created.
The [`Account.flags.linked`](../accounts.md#flagslinked) flag was set on the last event in the
batch, which is not legal. (`flags.linked` indicates that the chain continues to the next
operation).

### `timestamp_must_be_zero`
The account was not created.
The [`Account.timestamp`](../accounts.md#timestamp) is nonzero, but must be zero.
The cluster is responsible for setting this field.

### `reserved_field`
The account was not created.
[`Account.reserved`](../accounts.md#reserved) is nonzero, but must be zero.

### `reserved_flag`
The account was not created.
`Account.flags.reserved` is nonzero, but must be zero.

### `id_must_not_be_zero`
The account was not created.
[`Account.id`](../accounts.md#id) is zero, which is a reserved value.

### `id_must_not_be_int_max`
The account was not created.
[`Account.id`](../accounts.md#id) is `2^128 - 1`, which is a reserved value.

### `flags_are_mutually_exclusive`
The account was not created.
An account cannot be created with the specified combination of
[`Account.flags`](../accounts.md#flags).

The following flags are mutually exclusive:
- [`Account.flags.debits_must_not_exceed_credits`](../accounts.md#flagsdebits_must_not_exceed_credits)
- [`Account.flags.credits_must_not_exceed_debits`](../accounts.md#flagscredits_must_not_exceed_debits)

### `debits_pending_must_be_zero`
The account was not created.
[`Account.debits_pending`](../accounts.md#debits_pending) is nonzero, but must be zero.

An account's debits and credits are only modified by transfers.

### `debits_posted_must_be_zero`
The account was not created.
[`Account.debits_posted`](../accounts.md#debits_posted) is nonzero, but must be zero.

An account's debits and credits are only modified by transfers.

### `credits_pending_must_be_zero`
The account was not created.
[`Account.credits_pending`](../accounts.md#credits_pending) is nonzero, but must be zero.

An account's debits and credits are only modified by transfers.

### `credits_posted_must_be_zero`
The account was not created.
[`Account.credits_posted`](../accounts.md#credits_posted) is nonzero, but must be zero.

An account's debits and credits are only modified by transfers.

### `ledger_must_not_be_zero`
The account was not created.
[`Account.ledger`](../accounts.md#ledger) is zero, but must be nonzero.

### `code_must_not_be_zero`
The account was not created.
[`Account.code`](../accounts.md#code) is zero, but must be nonzero.

### `exists_with_different_flags`
An account with the same `id` already exists, but with different [`flags`](../accounts.md#flags).

### `exists_with_different_user_data_128`
An account with the same `id` already exists, but with different
[`user_data_128`](../accounts.md#user_data_128).

### `exists_with_different_user_data_64`
An account with the same `id` already exists, but with different
[`user_data_64`](../accounts.md#user_data_64).

### `exists_with_different_user_data_32`
An account with the same `id` already exists, but with different
[`user_data_32`](../accounts.md#user_data_32).

### `exists_with_different_ledger`
An account with the same `id` already exists, but with different [`ledger`](../accounts.md#ledger).

### `exists_with_different_code`
An account with the same `id` already exists, but with different [`code`](../accounts.md#code).

### `exists`
An account with the same `id` already exists.

With the possible exception of the following fields, the existing account is identical to the
account in the request:
- `debits_pending`
- `debits_posted`
- `credits_pending`
- `credits_posted`

To correctly recover from application crashes
[many applications](../../design/consistency.md#consistency-with-foreign-databases) should handle
`exists` exactly as [`ok`](#ok).

## Client libraries

For language-specific docs see:

* [Creating accounts using the .NET library](/src/clients/dotnet/README.md#creating-accounts)
* [Creating accounts using the Java library](/src/clients/java/README.md#creating-accounts)
* [Creating accounts using the Go library](/src/clients/go/README.md#creating-accounts)
* [Creating accounts using the Node.js library](/src/clients/node/README.md#creating-accounts)

## Internals

If you're curious and want to learn more, you can find the source code
for creating an account in
[src/state_machine.zig](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/blob/main/src/state_machine.zig). Search
for `fn create_account(` and `fn execute(`.
